docs: Extend draft of proposal 3 - Report (#123)
cncf-tags/green-reviews-tooling: docs/proposals/proposal-003-report.md

- Project name
- Project version (which release was benchmarked)
- Datetime (when the benchmark was performed)
- Project configuration (which configuration was benchmarked)
- Additional info
  - Pipeline version
  - Kubernetes version
  - Kepler version
  - Equinix Metal instance type

### Collect

The Green Reviews pipeline collects the metrics values for the pipeline run so they can be stored. 

**Note:** 2 options are presented for comparision. The proposal will be updated once an option has been selected.

#### Query Prometheus

Query Prometheus directly by running PromQL queries.

**Strengths**

- All metrics are available in Prometheus.
- PromQL queries can be executed against the Prometheus serve.

**Weaknesses**

- Dependency on having Prometheus installed in the cluster.
- Executing PromQL queries may need higher level tooling like the Prometheus Go SDK.

#### Scrape the metrics endpoint directly

Collect metrics by making curl requests to the `/metrics` endpoints.

**Strengths**

- Simple.
- Minimal dependencies just needs curl.

**Weaknesses**

- Need to scrape both kepler and kubelet metrics endpoints.

> - No ability to make PromQL queries.

Author: > Not sure exactly what you mean with this one. Is it that you can't get for example averages and stuff like that?

Yes if we scrape the endpoint we can only access the raw values and would have to do the calculations ourselves.

> Actually this could be a dealbreaker, for example if we need the energy consumption from x to y timestamp (the time when the benchmarking ran), we can't do that by just curling the /metrics endpoints, right?

Yes I think it could be a dealbreaker. By using PromQL we can leverage Prometheus to help with the more complex parts of the calculation.

### Store

Once the results have been calculated they need to be stored along with the additional metadata. For the data format JSON and Markdown are both options.

> Markdown allows the results to be presented in a more user friendly manner. Whereas JSON is easier to parse programatically. Storing in both formats is an option. This increases the amount of storage needed but the results are per pipeline run so we are not expecting high data volumes (famous last words! :).

Author: Postgres does have some JSON support but yes we'd probably want to use relational storage.

It does depend on the storage option we choose. Thanks I added a note on this and hopefully the new version is more coherent! :)

#### Object Storage (S3 compatible)

**Strengths**

- Simple.
- External backup outside of the cluster.

**Weaknesses**

- Data is private and not publicly accessible.
- Not interactive so no ability to compare results.

2 hosting options.

**AWS S3**

**Strengths**

- Simple and no infra to manage.
- We already have S3 bucket in CNCF AWS account for storing cluster OpenTofu state files.

**Weaknesses**

- Proprietary cloud service.
- Need to check we can use existing bucket for storing more data.

**MinIO**

Run [Equinix Metal node](https://deploy.equinix.com/developers/guides/minio/) running [MinIO](https://github.com/minio/minio). 

**Strengths**

- S3 compatible but not a proprietary service.
- Open Source (AGPL license).

**Weaknesses**

- Involves running an additional Equinix Metal server.
- Still needs external backup in case server fails.

#### In Cluster Storage with external backup

Current cluster runs K3s which can be configured to use [local storage](https://docs.k3s.io/storage).
We would still need an external backup but we could use object storage for this.

**Strengths**

- Cluster already has Prometheus and Grafana deployed.

> - Dynamic queries like comparing results can be implemented.

Author: Good point we can keep on using Grafana dashboards I added a note on that.

**Weaknesses**

> - We still need an external backup of the results.

Author: Yes, if we don't use the DevStats Postgres then in-cluster storage with S3 backup is my preferred option.

I added a note on using S3 for the backup.

> For the project related one Falco has already requested this metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the project-related metrics, Falco has requested the following:
```
